# Group Project: Acid deposition in Sweden
<p>This is a public version of our private repository of the assignment for the course of Ecological methods. We created this repository to make publicly available to everyone our code and the raw data. This works bidirectionaly; we can evolve our R skills based on your feedback and you can recycle and evolve our code for your own purposes. While on the one hand working with data is an individualistic process we can bring down the barriers of distance and work collectively. GitHub helped to overcome the distance between the group members; from Sweden all the way to Australia. Our rationale about science is based on open access, without barriers and with collaboration between researchers. </p>
<p>Its very difficult after one month of working with scripts to determine which exact pieces of them are written from who. In general, Rosie focused on Aluminium, Paschalis on pH and phytoplankton and Kasper on distance analysis. Charles and Bob contributed with adjustments.</p>
<p> All of our data are sourced from SLU: https://miljodata.slu.se/mvm/ </p>

<p>Cheers,</p>
Kasper-Rosie-Paschalis

# General comments for improvement:
<p> This project revealed our lack of knowledge on working with R and manipulating large sets of data. The first difficulty occurred with the SLU database which although is user friendly is limited to the data size someone can download. For example downloading a time series from 1993 to 2019 is forbitten from the host. In addition all the information are in Swedish which troubled us with translating the excel file content and most importantly to manage R to read Swedish characters. So, we strongly encourage everyone in the future to use only English characters which are readable from any device/programm. If we had the opportunty to do this assignment again we would start from choosing 4-8 specific lakes, acrooss all latitudinal gradients. One way to do that is from the RAC, by choosing the most and least high ranked lakes which their composition changed between the two time series. Consequently, we would perform an ANOVA to test at what extend this is due to pH or aluminium changes/fluctuations. If we had to deal only with (e.g.) 10 lakes, we could also include more factors that we know that influence phytoplankton, such as water colouring, aluminium, Dissolved Organic Content [DOC], temperature during summer months and oxygen saturation. On that case we would be able to deliver a more comprehensive, with higher resolution report for 10 lakes across different spatial and temporal scale. </p>

# Acknowledgements 
<p> We would like to thank very much all the teachers of the Ecological Methods course COVID-19 edition, you have done a great job to give the same quality classes as if we would have been on the field. Now it is time to go back to the auditorium, enough being all day long in front of a computer screen alone. A big round of applause to Bob Muscarella, that made this course interactive and fun and also thank you for the help on the R script. Thank you to Charlie Campbell, always there to “Bring it Together” for our struggles and learning on coding in R. Thank you for being our light in this deep water of coding. Thankyou to SLU and the teams that made all the data available that we used during this project. </p>  
